---
layout: post
title:  opendaylight handle dhcp
category: cloud
description:  learn how odl handle the dpcp packet
---

## refer link:


## Introduction
in FrontHaul env, when the FZM start, it will send the DHCP packet to DHCP server which locate in one VM,
So ToR switch and access switch need do configuration to let the packet travel to VM.
Seems ODL doesn't trigger topo change after it receive the DHCP req packet based on the test result.
here we need check how ODL handle the DHCP packet.

## DPCP

you can get more information from wikipedia via  [wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dynamic_Host_Configuration_Protocol)

 * DHCP discovery
 * DHCP offer
 * DHCP request
 * DHCP ack

The DHCP operation begins with clients broadcasting a request.
The client broadcasts messages on the network subnet using the destination address 255.255.255.255 or the specific subnet broadcast address.

## ODL process DHCP

https://lists.opendaylight.org/pipermail/controller-users/2014-August/000711.html.

        opendaylight just send out arp request to every non-internal port to find the location of 255.255.255.255 when dhcp discover packets reach the controller by packet in. switches receive similar packet out messages
        and no host replies to this arp request.

but from our test, seems odl has change the behavoir.
now Controller just broadcast the packet as soon as it receives the DHCP
packet

## ODL process General Broadcast Traffic

 * broadcast drop: drops all non-ARP/DHCP broadcast traffic.
 * broadcast forward-to-known: forwards broadcast traffic to all known hosts
 * broadcast always-flood: always flood the broadcast traffic.

## `Controller can act as a DHCP server`
 http://events.linuxfoundation.org/sites/events/files/slides/DHCPServiceinODL.pdf

 If controller is acting as a backend network virtualization solution
 (running ovsdb,vtn,dove) this option is better. Because in this setup, virtualization services knows the mac to ip mapping and they can resolve the DHCP request, But it require the implementation of full dhcp server capability in the controller that can work with existing virtualization solutions in ODL.
